So step by step we're making progress.
What we're not able to do is enter a number.
Well I guess technically we can enter a number if we kind of find the input field here it is but it's
not much fun to search for it would be nicer if you could see it wouldn't it.
So therefore let's style that input field.
That text input field here a little bit and just as before actually I went to do that in a separate
component.
So in the components folder I'll add my own input J.S. file and in there has always import react from
react and then import text input from React Native.
And here I'll actually not need the view because we'll just have to text input here in style and configured
it in there and then have the input constant here which is our functional component which we in the
end all the export of course.
And while one thing we'll need for sure is the style sheet because that should now be styled here so
that we have one default input Look we could reuse in this application if we needed multiple inputs
in different places.
And that's really the mindset you have to get into to create reusable components so that you don't have
to copy code around or repeat yourself but that you can easily share your components and easily create
the apps you want from your set of building blocks you create on your own in the end.
So here are my styles object with style sheet create like that looks good and now in that component
I want to return a text input.
So this built in text input.
Now of course my idea is that we can style it from in here.
So let's assign a style from in there but just as with the card it would be nice if we could also set
some styling from outside like a special with or special border or anything like that to enable that
again all pass object here to style.
And for one take all my style set up in my styles object and they are let's say in an input property
which we have yet to add and in addition also add all styles we are getting from props style so that
we could set styles from outside as well and now down there in histology we can add the input style
to well assign them styles to the input so yeah we could give us a height of let's say 30 which should
be a height that looks relatively good and to see something I also want to add a border at the bottom.
You could also add a border around the entire input with border color and border with and so on.
But I like that look where we only have a border below the input but that's of course totally subjective
and something you can set up according to your personal preferences.
A border at the bottom only can be set with border bottom color and there I'll go with grey and no pre-built
color which we can use with that shortcut and give this border bottom also with here off one add a margin
vertical of 10 to have some spacing around the input at least to the top and bottom.
And now is that the base styling for this text.
Input is done.
Now let's use that in the game screen so in there I want to import my own input from the components
folder input like that.
And replace this text input here with my own input which in the end wraps this built in text input of
course.
So use my own input.
Get rid of the text input input up there which we don't need anymore.
And now if we save this we see it a little bit but it's very very small you can barely see it here.
ISIS and it gets bigger as you type though which is certainly not what we want of course.
We're of course not done.
Instead to style the width.
I'll go to the start game screen.
So do the place where we use the input and set up the styling here.
Because for me it makes sense that we have some general styles which we always want in the input component
something like the height or the border but some specific styles like how big should it be so how broad
should it be.
That's something you want to set up in the place where you actually use it.
And therefore here I'll add this input property in the start game screen styles you'd object and maybe
use a width of 50 pixels here that should look good and assign dad to my custom input here with the
style prop.
So there we can now point at Styles start input with dead it will be having that with at all times and
if we type there we don't make that broader anymore.
Instead we can then simply scroll automatically in that input.
Now for this specific input for this specific layout here it would also be nice if the text would be
centered.
I think for most inputs you want debt default behavior of writing from left to right and starting on
the left edge.
But here are things some center text would be nice and therefore in Star game screen where I want to
have is centering here on this input.
We can also add the text align property and set this to center and now it is will center does text here
in the middle as we type.
And that's really nice for just entering a numbered in like this.
Speaking of that right now we can enter anything in there.
So we certainly need to configure it as input and for Dad if I go to the input component where we use
the text input there is a lot of stuff we can configure there and actually the best resource is always
of course is the official documentation there in the API docs if you go there and you search for the
text input you'll find not only an explanation but you'll also find all the props you can set there
and you can set things like Is it multi line or not.
How long may the text be.
You can also set up leaseholder text.
You can set auto correction and all that fun stuff.
So definitely check these stocks to find these specific property you might need for your use case.
I want to be able to set these props but I want to be able to set them from the place where they use
my custom input so not from in here because Dad would make sure that we use the same configuration for
all inputs we might have in our app.
I want to have more flexibility and just set up some base styling in here and configure the input in
the place where we then use it instead of in the core wrapper component.
The cool thing is react and that's not react native that's just react and normal JavaScript has a syntax
for that.
You can take your props your getting and spread them on your component like this.
The syntax might look a bit strange but what did in the end does is it takes all the props you have
all the props you set here and basically adds them to your component as props.
Now if you thereafter define our props like style and you already got a style here.
This style will override the style you've got here.
That's actually what I want because if I set a style prop on my own input from outside I definitely
want to override it with this style prop and add this styling which is set up down there to this text
input.
But if you set our props outside of this component so on my custom component then they will be added
to the text input and that allows us to add all the props we can add on the text input.
Also on our input so on our own component.
So here where we use input we can now not only add the style but we can also add blur on submit for
example to make sure that when we pressed the submit button there we lose focus and we close to soft
keyboard we can set auto capitalize to non which is one of the allowed values there.
If you check the docks you can set it to non sentences words and so on.
So I don't want to have capitalization turned on here because we'll just enter number but also because
I want to show you different configurations you can set I'll set auto correct here to falls so that
we're not auto correcting the user input and very important here.
I'll set the keyboard type to numeric so that the user has to enter a number here.
I'll set the max length here to 2 so that you may only enter two digits and not a very long number because
this game here is just one of the restrictions I have here is that this game only works with a two digit
number with all of that setup.
Now if you go back and I toggle my soft keyboard you see you get the number of keyboard here and you
can only enter two digits there and not more than that which is of course exactly what I want.
In addition here on Android we see this if you click the confirmed button this will close it.
That's thanks to that later on submit thing on RSA such a button doesn't exist here so there will actually
have to find a different solution for closing this if you tap somewhere else for example because right
now that's not happening.
But the good thing is we now have a keyboard we can see and a keyboard where we can enter numbers.
One thing I want to change though is that right now I can also enter a decimal separator here.
Now to get rid of that you can change the keyboard type to number pad and to see all the way double
keyboard types as always you official box are the place to go they're 40 text input you can dive into
a keyboard type and find out what you can set what works on all platforms and what you could set if
you would have a check that checks on which platform you are running to code which we have learned about
yet.
Number pad is supported on both platforms though.
And if you set this you now have the input where you can't enter a decimal place here.
If you type in your you can't do it on our OS on Android you unfortunately cans though.
So there will always have to find a different fix.